Their intro:
 The electric eel (Electrophorus electricus) is a type of fish living in slow-moving
 freshwater creeks and swamps in the northeastern regions of South America (The University of
 Western Australia, 2010). They are known for their ability to fire high-voltage discharges for
 defense and offense. 80% of their elongated body is composed of three pairs of electric organs
 (EO), and they contain many modified muscle cells called electrocytes or electroplax, which are
 the cells responsible for generating the electrical discharges (Gotter et al. 2012).
 Only one side of the membrane of an electrocyte, usually relatively flat, is innervated
 with electromotor neurons and contains voltage gated Na+ channels (see Figure 1). The other side
 of the membrane is more undulated and does not respond to nerve signals. Signals sent to an
 electrocyte arrive at the innervated membrane and activate the Na+ channels, causing positively
 charged sodium ions to flood into the cell. This flow of ions creates a temporary ion
 concentration gradient that generates a potential difference across the two ends of an electrocyte.
 This voltage produced from one cell is very small, averaging around 150 mV, but with
 many electrocytes (shaped like flattened disks) stacked together in series, a combined discharge
 can range up to 700V (Gotter et al. 858).
 It seems reasonable to then ask whether a biological battery can be built using the same
 method—if artificial synthetic cells can be built to recreate electrocytes and use ion
 concentration gradients to carry voltage as effectively as natural eel electrocytes. This
 comparison can have two outcomes: if synthetic electrocytes are used to create a biological
 battery, then its voltage will differ from a biological battery made with electrocytes from
 Electrophorus electricus; or the voltage will not differ.
 Electric eels live in freshwater, where the conductivity is not maximized. Thus, exploring
 saltwater environments within our battery could potentially optimize the current in the latter.
 To determine this, electrodes are attached to ion-conductive membranes to create
 synthetic electrocytes, which are then connected together to form a battery to store voltage.
 For it to be a fully biological battery, it is powered by a voltage generated from (Corpuscularia
 lehmannii), studied by Davi Gava Bittencourt, Mohammad Jibran Budullah, Youssef Missoum,
 and Alhasan Shnoot, converting electricity from solar energy. The connected synthetic
 electrocytes are immersed in freshwater and in saltwater as well in separate groups, so to test if
 putting the cells in saltwater will optimize the battery. The resulting voltage across the electrodes
 is measured by a voltmeter, and the results can be compared.

What to say in intro: (O for done, X for not done)
 [O] battery inspired by electric eels
 [O] inspired from previous paper theoretically designing the battery (lina's paper) (she apparently carried the project)
 [O] how electric eels work
 [OX?] how our prototype works (like how does our thing resemble the electric eel (this is for BIo class after all))
 [] ...


draft intro:
Native to the freshwater rivers of South America, the Electrophorus electricus, or more commonly referred to as the electric eel, is known for its ability to generate electric organ discharges (EOD); these EODs can be classified into low-voltage EOD and high-voltage EOD. Low-voltage EODs are expressed at lower frequencies of about 10Hz to 20Hz (K.C Catania, 2019). Therefore, they are more practical for communication and determining the presence of organisms in their environment through a process called electrolocation: monitoring changes in a particular electric field (Bennett,1970). On the other hand, high-voltage EODs are used as an attack or defence mechanism, as they can reach frequencies of up to 500 Hz (K.C. Catania, 2019). However, whether the emitted EODs are expressed as low or high voltages, they are produced from a specific cell that makes up 80% of the eel’s surface area: electrocytes. (University of Western Australia, 2015). Electrocyte cells are arranged in series and are located in the electric eel’s three most prominent organs: Sach’s organ, the Main organ, and Hunter’s organ. (Figure 1.) This arrangement allows for the entire eel to be viewed as a battery, with the positive and negative poles at the head and tail respectively, allowing for the variety of EOD frequencies mentioned above. Although electric eels have the potential to release high-frequency EODs, the power produced remains nonetheless quite minimal. This is a result of the high resistance of the freshwater where these eels are found, or more precisely, the lack of ions to maintain the electric current. (Biomimetic potential of electric eels, Kommentare, 2017). As a result, to optimize the battery potential of the electric eels EOD, research was conducted by Lina Guezi, (Guezi, Lina et al.) to produce a synthetic replication of the electric eel’s electrocyte cells in ionized water. Our experiment aims to continue the research conducted in order to explore the potential uses of this biological battery.


